What we're gonna look at now
is something called fish or fish shell.
Now, when we are in our normal shell,
what we've seen before is something called bash,
which is very much a typical shell that everyone has,
and the shell that I personally run is called Z shell,
which I'm gonna show you later on.
But fish shell is a really good kind of starting point.
It's almost enough for a lot of people.
So it gives you a lot of nice features,
and you can see it on this home screen.
One of the first things that we'll see in a moment
when I actually show you it is the autosuggest.
And that's when you start typing, it'll actually
bring up the full command and show it kind of dimmed out,
like auto complete in code completion, that kind of thing.
It has kind of colours and things built in.
There are a bunch of things that make it quite nice to use,
but in particular, there's this web configuration
that I'm gonna show you as well.
To instal it, there's a bunch of options,
it works on Windows, Linux and Mac.
I have a Mac, so I chose one of these.
I started off with the app, which worked fine
but it gave me a link to click in and it opens up terminal,
I then downloaded the installer.
The two things are pretty much the same,
but the installer just allows me to kind of
run it more easily from iTerm, which I prefer to use.
I run the installer, and we get this.
This is the bit that makes fish your default shell,
so every time I open up iTerm at the moment,
I still see bash, but if I run this command,
it will switch my default shell to fish.
So if I continue through this, doing the installation,
it'll ask me for my password.
And it should be done, it hasn't asked,
it hadn't told me to (mumbles) again.
But if I go over to iTerm now and type in fish,
I now have a slightly different prompt.
And up here, because iTerm tells me what programme
I'm running, let's see, fish is running.
Now, if I wanna make that my default,
let's go back to, I'm just gonna open up the, this thing.
I'm just gonna copy and paste this, copy,
back to the terminal, let's get rid of this, paste.
Okay, so I need to type in my password
just to make that permanent change.
Notice how it hasn't changed it to fish for me just yet.
If I close the terminal and open it again,
now you can see when I opened a fresh terminal,
there is this new prompt, and you can see
things are slightly different.
So let's have a look around.
Firstly, type in ls, and so we're already starting to see
that I type in ls -ltr a lot, so if I press
the right cursor key, it'll drop that in for me.
It has things like command completion,
so if I type in n, it sees that the last thing I typed,
beginning with n, was npm help it,
so I just hit right arrow, or right cursor,
just fills that out for me.
If I do npm and then hit tab a couple of times,
there we go, so I'm just gonna do that again,
npm or any command, really, and then hit tab a few times,
and what it does is it gets all of the commands
from like a big dictionary that you can instal,
and I can just scroll through these, and look at them,
some of them have descriptions that go with it as well.
So I could see we've got npm rebuild,
publish, prefix and so on, so I can just literally scroll
through all of this, which is pretty useful.
It also gives me a very nice view on all
of the arguments I can give to npm.
Like, I didn't know that it had this it,
which is why I typed npm help it.
So this is pretty cool.
There was a command that I had to run
to get that to work, let's go back to fish.
Tell you what, I will include a link in the video,
and you can click on it.
Basically, the fish command, fish_update_completions,
I ran that and it downloaded just a bunch of completions
and gave that all to me.
So when I type in npm or, let's have a look,
what else have we got, what commands have I run recently?
Grep, so I just hit tab twice, we got
these different grep commands.
Never used anything other than grep here.
And I can do grep, oh, that's not help, grep -.
By putting -, you can, and I hit tab a few times,
you can see all the arguments that you can give grep.
Really cool for just browsing through,
if you're someone who kind of learns
by looking at what's possible, this stuff is really useful.
So if I wanted to exclude something from pattern,
there it is, --exclude, I can search for patterns
from a file, very neat.
The configuration, so at the moment I've got
this kind of blue theme.
If I type in fish config and hit enter,
it'll open a web page config.
Now, the one important thing about this
is that I get caught out on is the background colour here
is purely for demonstration purposes.
When you change the background, when you set it to dark,
or you choose this light background,
it's not gonna change the background of your terminal,
you have to do that yourself,
and I can show you that in a moment.
So let's choose a different theme, Tomorrow,
background color's white, I'm gonna do Set Theme.
Says it's done it.
We'll go back to our terminal.
And it says hit enter to stop.
Now, the background is still black, so I have to
go into my preferences, and I think it was Profile
and Colours and Background, here we go.
What we're gonna do is set that to white,
maybe not so white, maybe we just choose it
from a drop-down, light background, there we go.
Oh, ls -ltr.
And still kind of blue, but you can see
some purple going on, I know we've got quite a light font,
so I think, like I showed you before
in the previous video, I can change the font as well.
Let's find a text and change the font to...
Courier, Bold maybe.
Doesn't seem like a good idea, does it?
Well, we can change the font here,
and I could put in Courier and just do
a bit more customization.
14, that'll do, I think I have to open a new tab,
there we go.
So you can see there's some different colours going on.
There's also a few kind of aliases baked in,
so I can do ll, and that's an alias
that gives me a shortcut to directory listings.
I can go into, let's do...
What else do we have, Documents.
Let's go to this jsonbin.
I think also you can see, I think if there's a mistake.
So the public directory here, it's underlining it as valid,
but if it's not a valid directory,
it stops underlining it, so you can see
where it's a valid command, I think also if I do...
Yes, so you can see that the command has gone red,
let's just bump this up a bit more,
the command has gone red here because fish is telling us
that it's an invalid command, there's no lskf command.
And I could show you how to add that to your own shell
if you don't wanna use all of fish,
but you can see here it's purple if it's good,
and red if it's no good.
That's fish, there are also some other bits here,
the prompt, I just wanna show you that.
I've changed the tab, it says the config has been shut down,
so I'm gonna close the window again
and just go back to the fish_config.
And then go back to the prompt, you can see my prompt
is this rem@macbookpro, but I can do something different.
Let's have a look what options we have,
a whole bunch of different things.
That looks pretty cool, I like that one.
I've just clicked on it.
I'm gonna do Set Prompt.
There we go, wow, look at that, very cool looking,
some kind of rainbow arrow thing.
So really, the point about fish is that
one of its mantras or ethos, I think,
is kind of minimise the configuration.
Even though you can make these config changes,
there's a GUI that goes with it.
We've got this web interface to make those changes.
It suggests a bunch of themes, you can customise it more
if you want to in here, in the colours and so on.
But it kind of gives you a bunch of options
in the first place, you can select the one you want
and go with that, whereas...
The prompts you can customise in any way you want,
and I'll show you some of that.
But really, sometimes you just wanna pick something
that works, and fish is a shell that can give you that.
I'll include some links to kind of further customizations
and particularly plugins that you can use
that can kind of extend on top of fish
in the web notes to go with this video.
But otherwise, like I said, that's fish shell.
Definitely worth checking out if
you don't wanna do too much customization
and get a lot of stuff for free, basically.